
Project Assignment02 -GNUTELLA Implementation-Test Results
Version1.0


10/23/2012
Advanced Operating System
Navaneetha Krishnan.T

 

3 different testing were done for this project.
1.	Unit testing
2.	Start Topology with 8 nodes.
3.	Mesh Topology with 9 nodes.
Unit Testing

For unit testing, following test scenarios were checked.
1.	Requesting file which is not available in the local directory of the system but with anyone of the peers.
2.	Searching a file which is not exists in whole network
3.	Requesting a file which exists in its Local directory.
Please find screen shots of user interface & few server displays.
User Interface:
	 


Servent1:
 
This screen shot depicts that message has been received from the requester & forwarded to all its neighbors. You can see in the above screenshot, if the request comes with same message id, then it will not process anything.
Servent2:
 
The hitquery message reaches the destination server. The message is getting forwarded to the requestor console.
If you see in the above screenshots, hitquery message is originated from 2 different servers. But the destination will process only first received request. Also the peers in the path of hitquery will not forward same hitmessage more than once.
Servent3:
 
After receiving hitmessage, the file server directly connected & retrieved the file.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
 For a network of 3 nodes, the Average elapsed time for 100 KB file is 160ms.
STAR TOPOLOGY

I have setup 8 nodes for this setup one as central node & all other node as branch nodes for it.
Please find the results (in text files) & configuration files used to test this scenario.
 Results:
 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Average Elapsed time for 100 KB files is 700ms.  (Time varies as per size of the file & distance travelled).
MESH TOPOLOGY

9 nodes are used to check this scenario. Their results are also captured & configuration files too listed below.
Results:
 
PERFROMANCE EVALUATION
Average Elapsed time for 100 KB files is 800ms.  (Time varies as per size of the file & distance travelled).

